Welcome to the **Cloud weekly** issue no 1. The weekly notes I've taken
around the Azure environment.

## This week in Azure

[[Azure Static Web Apps]] is 1 years old. Time flies. It has already been a
year. You can use it for hosting SPAs with the serverless backend.
Definitely something to try.

I am very excited about the [[Azure Text to speech]] update and all those
new voices and **emotions**. I can imagine new content readers and game
characters to be fully automated now.

Nice article about [[Azure Health Data Services]] and IoMT (Internet of
Medical Things) how to fight the diabetic foot problem and monitor patients
remotely with the proper security for the [[Protected Health Information -
PHI]] data.

Exciting times.

Microsoft Build 2022 is coming. Register now. [MS Build website](
https://mybuild.microsoft.com/en-US/home)

---
# Money tips
Remember to set up tags, budgets and alerts for your Azure costs.

Tip: You can run [[Azure SQL]] in a DTU or serverless model to cut the
prices (really good for non-production environments).

---
# Available:
[[Azure IoT Edge]]:
- **Debian Bullseye** is officially a "Tier 1" system (supported by
Microsoft). "Tier 2" systems are considered compatible with [[Azure IoT
Edge]] but not actively tested or maintained by Microsoft.

[[Azure SQL]]:
- The [[Azure SQL Database]] **Hyperscale** has now 99.99% SLA (change from
99.95% and 99.90%)
- The [[Azure Database for MySQL]] **Flexible Server** is now running on
the latest MySQL minor versions 8.0.28 and 5.7.37.

[[Azure Arc]]:
- [[Azure Private Link]] : using **site-to-site VPN** or **[[Azure
ExpressRoute]]** you can connect the on-prem network to the Azure portal
and not send traffic over the public internet.

[[Azure Monitor]]:
- [[Secure webhook]] is now available for connecting to [[💎 IT Service
Management - ITSM]] tools. It is more preferable because of the [[Azure
Active Directory (Azure AD)]] integration.

[[Azure Cognitive Services]]:
- Computer Vision character recognition (OCR) supports 164 languages (both
cloud and Docker version)

[[Azure Data Lake Storage]]:
- Simplified experience in the portal to migrate from [[Azure Data Lake
Storage Gen1]] to [[Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2]] (as the Gen1 will be
retired in 2024)

[[Azure Virtual Machines]]:
- The [[Trusted launch]] Gen2 VMs secure images are available in [[Azure
Compute Gallery]]

# Preview:
[[Azure Virtual Machines]]:
- The **DCsv3-series** virtual machines are available in Australia East,
Japan East, South Central US and Southeast Asia. Both DCsv3 and DCdsv3 help
protect the confidentiality and integrity of the code and data on the
public cloud. Part of [[Azure confidential computing]]

[[Azure Container Apps]]:
- Two new options: see log stream and connect to a running container
console.

[[Azure Static Web Apps]]:
- For speed up the build process you can skip building of the API
- The [[Azure DevOps]] integration is supported via the portal


---
# Week progress:
🟩 - general availability
🟨 - preview
📋 - interesting article

**Monday 2022-05-09**
- 🟩 [Generally available: Azure IoT Edge supports Debian Bullseye on
ARM32v7](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/azure-iot-edge-supports-debian-bullseye-arm32v7/)
-> [[Azure IoT Edge]]
- 🟩 [Generally available: Azure Arc-enabled servers support for private
endpoints](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/arc-server-private-endpoints-ga/)
-> [[Azure Arc]]
- 🟨 [Public preview: Azure Virtual Machines DCsv3 in Australia, Japan, US,
and Asia](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/expanding-dcsv3-to-asia-australia-japan-us/)
-> [[Azure Virtual Machines]]
- 📋 [Announcing new voices and emotions to Azure Neural Text to Speech](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/announcing-new-voices-and-emotions-to-azure-neural-text-to-speech/
"Announcing new voices and emotions to Azure Neural Text to Speech") ->
[[Azure Text to speech]]
- 📋 [Accelerating innovation in the diabetic foot market with Azure Health
Data Services](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/accelerating-innovation-in-the-diabetic-foot-market-with-azure-health-data-services/
"Accelerating innovation in the diabetic foot market with Azure Health Data
Services") -> [[Azure Health Data Services]]

**Tuesday 2022-05-10**
- coffee break ☕

**Wednesday 2022-05-11**
- 🟩 [Azure SQL Database Hyperscale service tier now provides a 99.99
percent availability SLA](
https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/sla/azure-sql-database/v1_7/) ->
[[Azure SQL Database]]
- 🟩 [Generally available: Minor versions upgrade for Azure Database for
MySQL – Flexible Server](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/generally-available-minor-versions-upgrade-for-azure-database-for-mysql-flexible-server/)
-> [[Azure Database for MySQL]]
- 🟩 [Generally available: IT Service Management Integration with secure
webhook](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/generally-available-it-service-management-integration-with-secure-webhook/)
-> [[Azure Monitor]]
- 🟩 [Generally available: Azure Compute Gallery support for trusted launch
Virtual Machines](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/trusted-launch-azure-compute-gallery-support/)
-> [[Azure Virtual Machines]]
- 🟨 [Public preview: Azure Container Apps now support log streaming and
console connect](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/public-preview-azure-container-apps-now-support-log-streaming-and-console-connect/)
-> [[Azure Container Apps]]
- 🟨 [Public preview: Static Web Apps support skipping API builds via Azure
pipelines](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/public-preview-static-web-apps-support-skipping-api-builds-via-azure-pipelines/)
-> [[Azure Static Web Apps]]
- 🟨 [Public preview: Improved Azure DevOps support in Static Web Apps](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/public-preview-improved-azure-devops-support-in-static-web-apps-2/)
-> [[Azure Static Web Apps]]

**Thursday 2022-05-12**
- 🟩 [Generally available: OCR supports 164 languages in the Cognitive
Services Computer Vision](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/read-ocr-supports-164-languages-cloud-container-2/)
-> [[Azure Cognitive Services]]
- 🟩 [General availability: Azure Data Lake Storage Gen1 to Gen2 using
Azure Portal](
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates/general-availability-migrate-your-azure-data-lake-storage-from-gen1-to-gen2-using-the-azure-portal-azure-updates-microsoft-az/)
-> [[Azure Data Lake Storage]]

**Friday 2022-05-13**
- coffee break ☕


---
Have a nice next week
Pawel
